
How to destroy any company.


Inbefore the fun sarcastic swearing starts we need to clarify two points. One - why does our company need policies and procedures? You don't know? 
To follow them blindly? 
Policies and procedures are there to replace the irreplaceable people. It's just a stage of the company's development from just a bunch of professionals to a 
company with good processes and policies. The next stage of company's life is creating a framework of policies that can't be implemented, followed and sometimes 
contradict eachother. They take up all of the change menegement, all of the reources, and most importantly piss everyone off.

Number two - why in the critical times we always end up with a bunch of shitheads in key positions? In general, through randon distribution they are spread 
throuout the workforce, but before, those individuals just didnt show up on the radar. Now when the chips are down, everything becomes clear.

Right! Let's fucke 'em up good! How to destroy your company!
13 easy to follow steps, but you don't need to perform them in order.

Step 1: Take out all the adequate, reasonable top management; don't worry, they will find a good job somewhere else. It was an honour and a privilege.
Don't touch the idiots (who's gonna hire them elsewhere?). Idiots won't get your strategic move, but they will talk lengths about effective changes, 
embracing the new order, and tell everyone how wise you are (everyone loves rimjobs).

Step 2: Our budgets are UNREAL?!!111 Your investors need to have a fit of orgasms from your financial promices. Year on year profit +30%, costs -30%.
The Budget needs to make all project managers shit bricks. Weak budgets are for pussies and there's a new sheriff in town.

Step 3: get rid of 10-15% of your workforce. Spew heretical bullshit about "inneffective" "ballast" "slowoing us down", "Leading companies show that", "automation"
and "robotization". Use FAANG and ohers as an example, most people won't get anything anyway while jerking off to that silicon valley know-how.

Step 4: Motivate your company by cuting their bonuses, social programmes and any other benefits. If they had work phones, cut that off for most of the staff, or
decreace the expense limit say, 3 times. Remember - they are being spoilt and are lucky to have jobs in this economy. Anyone who disagrees can loof for another job.
You can easlily find some new idiots to fill up the ranks, while without relevant experience, they will be loyal like a german sheperd.

Step 5: tell everyone in the company that we are experiencing hard times. This will free your hands for even crazier moves.

Step 6: Make moving and hiring of new employees hard. Together with redundancies it's an amazing method for killing whole workstreams, it will lose you 
corporate clients, key suppliers, and will piss of any last loyal managers.

Step 7: Re-organise. Join up some departments, split up others. The most active ones, you can split up and put in different offices, prederably on opposite ends of the city.
If  the system works, then great you're are a star of a manager, if not, then those fuckers are sabotaging the change process.

Step 8: move majority of decision making in business operations to HR. Remmeber chief, all these department heads always will want more people to work more effectively.
Show them that they are not in charge here. The rest of the business has to justify hiring to HR. Get it right: HR is not aiding your business, your business aids HR!

Step 9: Cut costs! Don't cut spending, cut costs. This can literally mean any old bullshit. For example, buy half as much fuel as needed, don't order
stationery, or printer supplies. None of that posh Tork toilet paper! They can shit in a galvanised bucket in the corner.

Step 10: invent interesting KPI's. For example, "for every kilo of lumber ordered, we need to produce 2 kilos birdhouses". How? That's no your fucking problem!
You hired those techincal staff for a reason, let them work it out. They can use more nails, or assemble them with a family of blue tits already inside.

Step 11: Stop all expansion, you're in hard times! Even key projects can wait 6 months!

Step 12: Implement a new reporting system. This will help you fuck with management for another couple of months.

Step 13: Hire management and other consultants, preferably from another industry. If your business is not FMCG, then you gotta get those guys. If you do software,
get people from marketing and graphic design; If you sell b2b chemicals by the container, get insurance or finance people. Be creative! You might end up being 
the new Eliyahu Goldratt.

And remmber, you're not bad, you're just a lot smarter than these plebs. At the end of the day, you have an MBA and a paper degree from some American university 
that you might have even visited. If you falter, just know that Google is moving everyone fo permanent remote work, and Zuckerberg is promising wi-fi zeppelins
cruising over Earth's deserts. Do you really think you can't spew that kind of bullshit at work?!

